
GitHub Notes 091715

$  git config --global user.name "George Koller"


$  git config --global user.email "GMKoller@gmail.com"





















Some history, and an important lesson:

    John Wilkins of London, England was a gentleman scientist.  There was a wave of efforts toward invented language at this amazing
    time.     Mr Wilkins worked diligently toward a carefully contrived set of tables that were organized in a tree like manner.


    Before starting my own adventures in Invented language I selected a number of books on the history of the various efforts
    and notables in this field and one of my favorite has been "In the Land of Invented Languages" by Arika Okrent.  In her
    coverage of Wilkin's heroic effort she dedicated an entire chapter to her struggles to bring together the words for a few
    sentences.  A Chapter as a result was titled "The word for 'Poop'. In this chapter she informs us that Mr Wilkins,
    perfectly PROPERLY filed the word for Poop under:

    MOTION:purgation:serious and watery:from the:Consistent and Gross parts:downward:Stool

    As some kind of structure is absolutely necessary to organize the more than 5,000 concept symbols that make up a working
    language and while computer technology can revolutionize many things, any structure that attempts to organize so many
    concepts MUST BE EITHER "TALL" OR "FAT".  Tall means too many levels (more then 6 likely in some cases) and Fat means left
    to looking at more selection choices than is comfortable.

    Certainly, what Ankara found particularly frustrating and time consuming was the nature of the choices, and the confusing and
    time consuming need to trace out all the sub-options before finding a choice did not exist.

    Before one line of code was written we took two important lessons from his heroic effort!

    First, using shapes, colors, and every device we can put to work, we would work to keep the number of levels to TWO.  Never
    more, and never less.  We appreciate that consistency counts.

    Yes, there are only 2 Keys to hit to SELECT any Symbol (word), but this is a little misleading, as actually there are presented
    actually FIVE levels of Organization.  Let us not go into too much detail, but right at the beginning there are SIX groupings
    of what we will call SUPERKEYS.

    Lets introduce a few of them: PEOPLE    This group is at the center of your screen.   This group is at the center of our lives
    from birth to grave for our Model (ProtoType) person.  We are NOT interested in exceptions, this is about the typical Baby, the
    typical Child, and the Typical Adult and so on.  It is not about Tarzan, or Robinson Crusoe!

    //////////rewrite



     Unless your target audience is gentlemen 19th Century slightly prudish gentlemen I think the lesson from this is that
     any serious attempt to catalog a serious vocabulary cannot be based strictly on logic.

     There is another lesson embedded in this wonderful in this oddly named chapter!  Why did Ankara chose this word as
     a serious student of linguistics?  I will guess, it is because "Poop" is a basic thing that a baby experiences, somehow,
     within hours of birth.  Its with us, our parents, our children everyday.  It is rather, the truth be said, at the
     CENTER (like only a few other words) of the Baby experience, just ask any mother.

     So how to use the lesson from the heroic effort of John Wilkin's"?
         1.  We need to avoid a logic based classification system that builds significant depth
         2.  Common, and BASIC words need to be exposed, raised up the organization tree as it were, to where
             it is readily available.




     In the balance of LOGIC vs INTUITION let us side rather with INTUITION.

     Where does this take us?

     Go to the CENTER of your screen from left to right.  PEOPLE!

     Look at the CENTER of this vertical column.  PEOPLE:Babies

     Press this super key and what will you see?

          MILK! ,  POOP! ,   PEE!


     Remember this anti-prudish, non-victorian, earthy real world term, and understand that we have the BABY experience
     outward the CENTRAL ORGANIZING THEME of our attempt at categorization over 5,000 human concepts in Symbolic form.


     To tell the truth what started as an experiment to see if it was possible only, has worked out better than I would
     have imagined.  We are excited that the PRIMARY vocabulary of over 4,000 terms are NEVER MORE THAN 2 KEYS AWAY
     from being selected!  This is the rough Alphabet based (non Symbolic) equivalent of having every single word consisting
     of just two letters - and that clearly is not possible with a phonetic language.

     BLITZ-Writer, we believe, should not only avoid many profound Grammar type issues, allow a greater range from basic to
     advanced, but it should also be FASTER.


     Please consider that one must learn an alphabet, one must learn to spell (with many illogical example in every phonetic
     language), and we need to just plain memorize or experience many times the arbitrary mapping of sound meanings to concepts.
     It is often an effort that has dissolved into the memories of our childhood.

     This great effort is NOT needed to learn the Blitz-Writer scheme, however, understanding it does require time and effort.

     Hopefully this effort will be a discovery, or perhaps more accurately a re-discovery of how we learned the CONCEPTS:
     that make up our LANGUAGE: WORLD:




CONSIDERATIONS

From the INSIDE OUT THE PRIMARY GROUPINGS ARE:   PEOPLE, SCENES(RT), ANIMATE(LF), WORLD(LF), CONCEPTS(RT), LANGUAGE(ABV).

This is the order, from the center of the screen outward, that a BABY experiences the world...  it all starts with
milk, poop, pee, wetness, diapers and proceeds to the more and more abstract CONCEPTS, and knowledge of the WORLD.

Of course this is only a Rough Map, a sketch, the exact placement of over 5,000 individual concepts of things, and
actions requires many finer divisions, but only so many rules.

ACTIONS (verbs) are associated with what has been thought to be the most closely associated THING.  However, clearly,
there are some Actions which are universal like "Push".

NOTE THAT UNLIKE THE OTHER GROUPS that are positioned across the screen from left to right.  LANGUAGE sweeps across
the top of the screen.  This is not an accident.  The thought is that LANGUAGE is the what our set of symbols are about
and they provide the glue or grammar that binds the concepts into a whole system.

So words such as #push are included in LANGUAGE:

PEOPLE: are the Center of our :BABY lives, :Babies are born absolutely dependent on the adults around them to provide
nurishment, shelter, protection, and provide sanitary conditions.  While this lessens with :maturity it remains true in
the sense of a PROTOTYPE child at least into the teen years.

PROTOTYPE is an important concept.  It is said that the average family has 1.7 kids.  There is no real "Average", and
there are huge and understood variations of what is NORMAL for a FARM, for a KITCHEN from country to country, from
industrialized lands to third world countries.  From subsistance Farms in one land to huge industrial Farms in another
land.

What is meant by PROTOTYPE is something between the extremes, something like one might see in a cartoon or educational video
for children.

Correspondingly PEOPLE: are the largest grouping by far.  The shape of people on the screen corresponds in position, and
in shape to the Bliss Symbol for PEOPLE.  Again, not a coincidence.  Indeed, every device known to us has many used in every
imaginable way to make the organization of so many concepts intuitive.

Note that using strict logic, scientific principles and keeping for instance a lizard completely separate from Mammals
and such things would NOT help a child, it would make greater sense, perhaps, to educated and world experienced adults.
This would clearly not be as effective for the "average" new user of Bliss Symbols.

SCENES: are an important concept!   People do many different things.  They go shopping, they travel by train, they may have
and experience with a courtroom, or be involved somehow in a CRIME.

SCENES: are about a PROTOTYPICAL instance of PEOPLE in different specific SITUATIONS/PLACES.

Consider the Bliss Symbol '#hammer,gavel,mallet'.   As a hammer this symbol appears in PEOPLE:house  for one particular
reason, this is where a child is most likely to be introduced to the highly useful and common tool.  However, a hammer
with only slight variation is also used in Courtrooms as a symbolic instrument of the Judge to call the court to order.
Something that would certainly occur in a PROTOTYPICAL court-room SCENE.  So that variation of the Hammer is included
in SCENE:crime:court...

And this brings up another lesson about the Blitz-Writer organization scheme, we have not been afraid of occasional
REDUNDANCY.  The idea is to make Objects, Actions and associated words as findable as possible, and NOT to draw the
most logical lines between concepts which are necessarily fuzzy.

There are other important devices for classification that have been used. In fact, many at the highest and lowest
levels:

For example there are words which are closely associated with another word.  A bicycle helmet is just a helmet, and
can clearly be used for mountain climbing, crawling in caves, parachuting, on construction sites, and for racing cars.
However, in the CHRONOLOGICAL order, and most likely common association a helmet is likely FIRST associated with Bicycles.



Sometimes FUZZY is best.

A snowplow is a utility vehicle, NOT a transportation vehicle.  Again and again, however, "fuzzy" associations are selected
over strict logic, or a new classification at any level with a total population of one.

Again and again when a category does not exist a thing, or an action will be found under something it is thought to be
strongly and generally associated with.

Remember that LANGUAGE is where the "Glue" words that answer questions of _who, _where, _when, _why, and _what.   _when
has been extended to include frequency, even probabilities.   The relationship is FUZZY, we know it, but it IS there, in German
the word for If is Wenn.  Yes, its Fuzzy.


What kind of word is "Ajar"?  Where will it be found?  We think it should be closely associated with DOOR, and that is exactly where
it will be found.  What kind of word is "Invisible"?  Well, its not perfectly logical, but it is the OPPOSITE of visible, and THIS
has to do with visibility.  Note, we can't see many many things because they are removed from us, or they are too small, or because,
indeed like energy "it" doesn't really exist in a visible form.  To "not be visible" would be a very large and very disconnected
set, but somehow "Invisible" besides meaning NOT SEEN also implies it exist but is somehow hidden or cloaked from our view.

Languages are invisible, and they must also allow fuzzy.


 NOTE ALSO:

1.  Under language is something of a special feature to aid the discovery of the Bliss Symbol System.  It is KEYS.   Keys are the
basic elements of the sub-symbols that make up many/most of the Bliss WORDS.

2.  In the Blitz categorization system there UP TO SIX LEVELS used, the KEYS are, however "flattened" to such an extent that
there are only two.  Therefore the "Keys" that classify a word are very often combinations such as  'PEOPLE:ARE:career:vocations'.
This may be interesting but it does not show up except in the concept of "Prefix Keys" which may or may not be exposed for client
learning.

3. Our advice for learning the system effectively?  In a few words:  EXPLORE, EXPLORE before Searching, Searching.
   Remember, with a phonetic based system many many hundreds of hours is required for an average person to become
   literate.  There are certainly 1,000s of hours are required for an average adult to learn a 2nd language, we believe
   for an average adult to begin to be effective finding words in our system in less than 1/10 of that time.  This has not
   been proven, but IF this is true then the Blitz-Vocabulary-System, we believe, could be used as a particular effective
   tool to "bridge" to a 2nd Language, as:

    IF YOU CAN **FIND** THE BLITZ WORD, YOU CAN COMPOSE THIS WORD INTO TO A SENTENCE OF ANY SUPPORTED LANGUAGE SYSTEM.


@@
