Welcome to the blitz_writer0 wiki!

Consider this a humble start on how we can confront the difficult and perhaps critical issue of the 5% or so of vocabulary words that defy simple categorization logic.

Blitz-Writer version 0.1 will be based on a simple TWO KEY LEVEL scheme.  Never more keys to define a word, and never less.

There is a price to be paid for this simplicity!   Simply put, the SUPERKEYS must contain an average of some 60 symbols (allowing for some redundancy, and counting Softabs).  On a strictly logical basis a group could contain a single Word.  A strictly logical scheme will easily go 5 and 6 levels deep.

Our TWO LEVEL system actually has at least 5 Display Levels. Right off, at the SUPERKEY level there are 6 groupings:  PEOPLE, SCENES, ANIMATE, CONCEPTS, WORLD, and LANGUAGE.

However, some percent of a working vocabulary, probably from 5-10% are just "fuzzy" and seem to defy simple categorization.

Take the compound word "manhole-cover".   Its a WORD in the Bliss Symbol System, and there are very logical sub-keys.   Most appropriately, it would be in a SCENE, but there is only so much space for SuperKeys, each SuperKey should contain at least 40 Words, and not more than 80 if possible.

How many SCENE:city:street   words could there be?

Street-signs, Gutters...  not too many.  There is no Bliss Symbol for Gutters, except having to do with a house.

There is a SUPERKEY, however named PEOPLE:use:transport
So we have used a SOFTAB:city:street:

Perhaps it could also be categorized under SCENES:transport:land   although a Manhole-cover has nothing directly to do with Transportation at all.

The point is that although some 85% plus of the words seem to fall solidly into place, some percent will always remain fuzzy.

WHAT CAN BE DONE TO WORK WITH FUZZY CATEGORIZATIONS?

1. Trick our Memories into associating such words specifically with a group by way of a visual sequence.

2. Use UI techniques such as to make active all the KEYS (at whatever level) that contain a certain

